---
layout: post
title:  "Invaders"
---

### Arduino Space Invaders

This was a college project that I spent some time elaborating on after the showcase. It served as a great introduction to microcontrollers. I ended up adding a leveling system (because everything I make always ends up turning into an RPG) and I even created an endless mode in which you could purchase power ups.

The potentiometer we had was kind of screwy. I think we even ended up replacing it. It had a lot of half-step glitches we were noticing early on.

{% include image.html src="/assets/invaders-assets/20161118_175328.jpg" alt="Arduino potentiometer" caption="" %}

Look at that beauty...

{% include image.html src="/assets/invaders-assets/20161118_175341.jpg" alt="Arduino breadboard" caption="" %}

Bird's eye view. Still just as ugly, just... you're a bird.

{% include image.html src="/assets/invaders-assets/20161118_175347.jpg" alt="Arduino breadboard and microcontroller" caption="" %}

I felt pretty cool when I first got this working. Little did I know I'd end up getting sucked into it and adding features we had no business adding.

{% include image.html src="/assets/invaders-assets/20161121_205353.jpg" alt="Arduino LED display" caption="" %}

"Kevin please put the bag down, dude, I just want to take a good picture." Kevin insisted on holding the wire bag up for this picture.


{% include image.html src="/assets/invaders-assets/20161122_153248.jpg" alt="Arduino LED display 2" caption="" %}

Here's the aforementioned leveling system. Endless mode was fun to add. I learned a lot about working with digital displays so I got creative with my bullet speed and health powerups.

{% include image.html src="/assets/invaders-assets/20161212_000902.jpg" alt="Arduino LED display with RPG elements" caption="" %}

### Conclusion

Mainly what I was proud of with this project was running the team. I got to try out leading a group of other programmers for the first time. Even though there weren't necessarily team roles, it fell on me to schedule, plan, and assign work to the group. I think we ended up doing well and the showcase was really cool. 

In hindsight this is definitely what set me down the path of leading development for other things, and especially games. I mean... I haven't stopped making them.

### More
You can check out **some** of the code on Github. Unfortunately the code there might be a little out-of-date. This is an old project, so I only have the code that is on my still-living drive. If I get an urge to engage in some Hard Drive Necromancy, I'll update the repo and this post. Otherwise... Hopefully you can fill in the gaps.

[Space-Invaders Repo](https://github.com/ClarkStraws/Space-Invaders)

